examples/02_model_collaborative_filtering/README.md, before:

# Deep dive in collaborative filtering algorithms

In this directory, notebooks are provided to give a deep dive of collaborative filtering recommendation algorithms. The notebooks make use of the utility functions ([reco_utils](../../reco_utils)) available in the repo.

| Notebook | Environment | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [als_deep_dive](als_deep_dive.ipynb) | PySpark | Deep dive on the ALS algorithm and implementation.
| [baseline_deep_dive](baseline_deep_dive.ipynb) | --- | Deep dive on baseline performance estimation.
| [cornac_bpr_deep_dive](cornac_bpr_deep_dive.ipynb) | Python CPU | Deep dive on the BPR algorithm and implementation.
| [lightgcn_deep_dive](lightgcn_deep_dive.ipynb) | Python CPU, GPU | Deep dive on a LightGCN algorithm and implementation.
| [multi_vae_deep_dive](multi_vae_deep_dive.ipynb) | Python CPU, GPU | Deep dive on the Multinomial VAE algorithm and implementation.
| [rbm_deep_dive](rbm_deep_dive.ipynb)| Python CPU, GPU | Deep dive on the rbm algorithm and its implementation.
| [sar_deep_dive](sar_deep_dive.ipynb) | Python CPU | Deep dive on the SAR algorithm and implementation.
| [standard_vae_deep_dive](standard_vae_deep_dive.ipynb) | Python CPU, GPU | Deep dive on the Standard VAE algorithm and implementation.
| [surprise_svd_deep_dive](surprise_svd_deep_dive.ipynb) | Python CPU | Deep dive on a SVD algorithm and implementation.

Details on model training are best found inside each notebook.

Commit message:

Deep dive notebook for BiVAE model using Cornac (#1358)
* upgrade cornac version

* update README files

* first draft

* fix equations

* change photo sizes

* fix equations

* fix equations

* add smoke test

* add integration test

* upgrade cornac version

* fix tests

* add cornac_bivae_deep_dive

examples/02_model_collaborative_filtering/README.md, after:

# Deep dive in collaborative filtering algorithms

In this directory, notebooks are provided to give a deep dive of collaborative filtering recommendation algorithms. The notebooks make use of the utility functions ([reco_utils](../../reco_utils)) available in the repo.

| Notebook | Environment | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [als_deep_dive](als_deep_dive.ipynb) | PySpark | Deep dive on the ALS algorithm and implementation.
| [baseline_deep_dive](baseline_deep_dive.ipynb) | --- | Deep dive on baseline performance estimation.
| [cornac_bivae_deep_dive](cornac_bivae_deep_dive.ipynb) | Python CPU, GPU | Deep dive on the BiVAE algorithm and implementation.
| [cornac_bpr_deep_dive](cornac_bpr_deep_dive.ipynb) | Python CPU | Deep dive on the BPR algorithm and implementation.
| [lightgcn_deep_dive](lightgcn_deep_dive.ipynb) | Python CPU, GPU | Deep dive on a LightGCN algorithm and implementation.
| [multi_vae_deep_dive](multi_vae_deep_dive.ipynb) | Python CPU, GPU | Deep dive on the Multinomial VAE algorithm and implementation.
| [rbm_deep_dive](rbm_deep_dive.ipynb)| Python CPU, GPU | Deep dive on the rbm algorithm and its implementation.
| [sar_deep_dive](sar_deep_dive.ipynb) | Python CPU | Deep dive on the SAR algorithm and implementation.
| [standard_vae_deep_dive](standard_vae_deep_dive.ipynb) | Python CPU, GPU | Deep dive on the Standard VAE algorithm and implementation.
| [surprise_svd_deep_dive](surprise_svd_deep_dive.ipynb) | Python CPU | Deep dive on a SVD algorithm and implementation.

Details on model training are best found inside each notebook.
