CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contribution Guidelines

Contributions are welcomed! Here's a few things to know:

- [Contribution Guidelines](#contribution-guidelines)
  - [Steps to Contributing](#steps-to-contributing)
  - [Coding Guidelines](#coding-guidelines)
  - [Microsoft Contributor License Agreement](#microsoft-contributor-license-agreement)
  - [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
      - [Do not point fingers](#do-not-point-fingers)
      - [Provide code feedback based on evidence](#provide-code-feedback-based-on-evidence)
      - [Ask questions do not give answers](#ask-questions-do-not-give-answers)

## Steps to Contributing

**TL;DR for contributing: We use the staging branch to land all new features and fixes. To make a contribution, please create a branch from staging, make a modification in the code and create a PR to staging.** 

Here are the basic steps to get started with your first contribution. Please reach out with any questions.
1. Use [open issues](https://github.com/Microsoft/Recommenders/issues) to discuss the proposed changes. Create an issue describing changes if necessary to collect feedback. Also, please use provided labels to tag issues so everyone can easily sort issues of interest.
2. [Fork the repo](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) so you can make and test local changes.
3. Create a new branch **from staging branch** for the issue (please do not create a branch from main). We suggest prefixing the branch with your username and then a descriptive title: (e.g. gramhagen/update_contributing_docs)
4. Install reco-utils package locally using the right optional dependency for your test. (e.g. gpu test: `pip install -e .[gpu]`
5. Install development requirements. `pip install -r dev-requirements.txt`
6. Create a test that replicates the issue.
7. Make code changes.
8. Ensure unit tests pass and code style / formatting is consistent (see [wiki](https://github.com/Microsoft/Recommenders/wiki/Coding-Guidelines#python-and-docstrings-style) for more details).
9. Create a pull request against **staging** branch.

Once the features included in a [milestone](https://github.com/microsoft/recommenders/milestones) are completed, we will merge staging into main. See the wiki for more detail about our [merge strategy](https://github.com/microsoft/recommenders/wiki/Strategy-to-merge-the-code-to-main-branch).

## Coding Guidelines

We strive to maintain high quality code to make the utilities in the repository easy to understand, use, and extend. We also work hard to maintain a friendly and constructive environment. We've found that having clear expectations on the development process and consistent style helps to ensure everyone can contribute and collaborate effectively.

Please review the [coding guidelines](https://github.com/Microsoft/Recommenders/wiki/Coding-Guidelines) wiki page to see more details about the expectations for development approach and style.

Apart from the official [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) developed by Microsoft, in the Recommenders team we adopt the following behaviors, to ensure a great working environment:

#### Do not point fingers
Let’s be constructive.

<details>
<summary><em>Click here to see some examples</em></summary>

"This method is missing docstrings" instead of "YOU forgot to put docstrings".

</details>

#### Provide code feedback based on evidence 

When making code reviews, try to support your ideas based on evidence (papers, library documentation, stackoverflow, etc) rather than your personal preferences. 

<details>
<summary><em>Click here to see some examples</em></summary>

"When reviewing this code, I saw that the Python implementation the metrics are based on classes, however, [scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/classes.html#sklearn-metrics-metrics) and [tensorflow](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/metrics) use functions. We should follow the standard in the industry."

</details>

#### Ask questions do not give answers
Try to be empathic. 

<details>
<summary><em>Click here to see some examples</em></summary>

* Would it make more sense if ...?
* Have you considered this ... ?

</details>

## Microsoft Contributor License Agreement

Most contributions require you to agree to a Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label, comment). Simply follow the instructions provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.

Commit message:

Andreas/docs (#1426)
* :bug: in installation process and in test execution

* make sure we are using the package when running the test :bug:

* tag

* xlearn :bug:

* trying to remove exit -1

* trying to remove exit -1 :bug:

* Remove html files in docs from being pushed

* trying to remove exit -1 :bug::bug:

* trying to remove exit -1 failOnStderr

* trying to remove exit -1 :boom:

* trying to remove exit -1 :boom::boom:

* new full run xlearn in

* trigger tag :bug:

* Edit CONTRIBUTING.md

* backoff

* :memo:

* review :memo: in common

* wip

* deprec

* fix :memo:

* removing dev branch, will trigger only with tag

* Fix docstrings in dataset and evaluation

* Fix ** in docstring

* Fix code example in docstring

* Reorder data sets in rst

* fix deeprec tests

* remove xlearn from core deps

* remove xlearn from core deps :bug:

* Add sections for each data set

* improve maybe download tests

* Edit dataset utils

* wip

* Add missing docstrings

* Fix list

Co-authored-by: miguelgfierro <miguelgfierro@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Miguel González-Fierro <3491412+miguelgfierro@users.noreply.github.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contribution Guidelines

Contributions are welcomed! Here's a few things to know:

- [Contribution Guidelines](#contribution-guidelines)
  - [Steps to Contributing](#steps-to-contributing)
  - [Coding Guidelines](#coding-guidelines)
  - [Microsoft Contributor License Agreement](#microsoft-contributor-license-agreement)
  - [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
      - [Do not point fingers](#do-not-point-fingers)
      - [Provide code feedback based on evidence](#provide-code-feedback-based-on-evidence)
      - [Ask questions do not give answers](#ask-questions-do-not-give-answers)

## Steps to Contributing

**TL;DR for contributing: We use the staging branch to land all new features and fixes. To make a contribution, please create a branch from staging, make a modification in the code and create a PR to staging.** 

Here are the basic steps to get started with your first contribution. Please reach out with any questions.
1. Use [open issues](https://github.com/Microsoft/Recommenders/issues) to discuss the proposed changes. Create an issue describing changes if necessary to collect feedback. Also, please use provided labels to tag issues so everyone can easily sort issues of interest.
2. [Fork the repo](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) so you can make and test local changes.
3. Create a new branch **from staging branch** for the issue (please do not create a branch from main). We suggest prefixing the branch with your username and then a descriptive title: (e.g. gramhagen/update_contributing_docs)
4. Install reco-utils package locally using the right optional dependency for your test. (e.g. gpu test: `pip install -e .[gpu]`
5. Install development requirements. `pip install -r dev-requirements.txt`
6. Create a test that replicates the issue.
7. Make code changes.
8. Ensure that unit tests pass and code style / formatting is consistent (see [wiki](https://github.com/Microsoft/Recommenders/wiki/Coding-Guidelines#python-and-docstrings-style) for more details). In particular, make sure that there is a docstring for every function you add and that it conforms to the Google style. 
9. Create a pull request against **staging** branch.

Once the features included in a [milestone](https://github.com/microsoft/recommenders/milestones) are completed, we will merge staging into main. See the wiki for more detail about our [merge strategy](https://github.com/microsoft/recommenders/wiki/Strategy-to-merge-the-code-to-main-branch).

## Coding Guidelines

We strive to maintain high quality code to make the utilities in the repository easy to understand, use, and extend. We also work hard to maintain a friendly and constructive environment. We've found that having clear expectations on the development process and consistent style helps to ensure everyone can contribute and collaborate effectively.

Please review the [coding guidelines](https://github.com/Microsoft/Recommenders/wiki/Coding-Guidelines) wiki page to see more details about the expectations for development approach and style.

Apart from the official [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) developed by Microsoft, in the Recommenders team we adopt the following behaviors, to ensure a great working environment:

#### Do not point fingers
Let’s be constructive.

<details>
<summary><em>Click here to see some examples</em></summary>

"This method is missing docstrings" instead of "YOU forgot to put docstrings".

</details>

#### Provide code feedback based on evidence 

When making code reviews, try to support your ideas based on evidence (papers, library documentation, stackoverflow, etc) rather than your personal preferences. 

<details>
<summary><em>Click here to see some examples</em></summary>

"When reviewing this code, I saw that the Python implementation the metrics are based on classes, however, [scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/classes.html#sklearn-metrics-metrics) and [tensorflow](https://www.tensorflow.org/api_docs/python/tf/metrics) use functions. We should follow the standard in the industry."

</details>

#### Ask questions do not give answers
Try to be empathic. 

<details>
<summary><em>Click here to see some examples</em></summary>

* Would it make more sense if ...?
* Have you considered this ... ?

</details>

## Microsoft Contributor License Agreement

Most contributions require you to agree to a Contributor License Agreement (CLA) declaring that you have the right to, and actually do, grant us the rights to use your contribution. For details, visit https://cla.microsoft.com.

When you submit a pull request, a CLA-bot will automatically determine whether you need to provide a CLA and decorate the PR appropriately (e.g., label, comment). Simply follow the instructions provided by the bot. You will only need to do this once across all repos using our CLA.
